1. When resources has been changed outside of Terraform, and you want the state file to reflect those changes without changing the 
   configuration.  (terraform refresh)

2. When you created resources manually (e.g., in AWS, Azure) or with another tool, and now want Terraform to manage them

   terraform import <resource_type>.<resource_name> <real_world_resource_id>
   terraform import aws_instance.web i-1234567890abcdef0

Terraform is an open-source Infrastructure as Code (IaC) tool.
It helps to create and manage infrastructure using a high-level configuration language called HCL (HashiCorp Configuration Language). 

terraform init
It initializes the environment in your current directory.

Downloads required providers and sets up the backend.


🔹 terraform plan
It shows the changes that will be made to your infrastructure.

Helps you review what Terraform will create, update, or delete — before applying.


🔹 terraform apply
It applies the changes to your infrastructure.

Creates or updates resources based on your .tf files and the plan.

🔌 Terraform Provider vs Resource
🔹 Provider
A provider is a plugin that interacts with various APIs like AWS, Azure, GCP, etc.

It tells Terraform which cloud or platform you're working with.

✅ Example:
provider "azurerm" {} → Talks to Azure API

🔹 Resource
A resource is the actual component you want to create, update, or delete in your infrastructure.

Examples: VMs, Storage Accounts, Subnets, AKS, etc.

✅ Example:
resource "azurerm_virtual_machine" "vm1" { ... }


Workspace is used to manage multiple state files in a single configuration directory.
It allows you to use the same Terraform code for different environments like dev, test, or prod.

A module is a reusable block of Terraform code. It helps you organize and reuse your infrastructure configuration.

🧠 Types of Modules:

Root Module – Your main Terraform config in the current directory

Child Module – A reusable module, either local or from a registry (e.g., Terraform Registry)

Is used to track resources managed by Terraform. It stores metadata about the infrastructure

By default, Terraform keeps the tfstate file locally. To enable team collaboration, store it remotely using Amazon S3 bucket.


Terraform variables are used to parameterize configurations, making them reusable and flexible. They allow defining dynamic 
 values instead of hardcoding them in Terraform files.


 Terraform outputs provide a way to display useful information after applying a Terraform configuration(e.g., IP addresses, DNS names)

That allow you to fetch existing infrastructure from external providers (e.g., AWS, Azure, GCP) without creating new resources.

refers to local values, which are named values that you can define in a Terraform configuration and then reference 
 your code to make it cleaner and easier to manage.

locals {
  instance_type = "t2.micro"
  environment   = "dev"
}


